
# Meeting Dynamics (CRM + ERP) Managed Services - Brainstoming on 20240415

---

## Questions

1. Paradigm Shift:
Dynamics 365 as SaaS is fundamentally different from any previous version of Dynamics 365, 
it is a completely different product and built on a new technological stack.

2. SaaS Ecosystem:
Dynamics 365 as SaaS is an Ecosystem of applications and services based on Microsoft Azure 
PaaS & IaaS and it is not meant to be either a PaaS or an IaaS solution therefore the same
general design principles cannot apply one-to-one.

3. SaaS Module-Based Telemetry Stacks:
It is difficult to get a holistic view of how D365 integrates with telemetry because each 
SaaS module has dedicated informational resources.

4. Integration and convergence to App Insights
App Insights integration with D365 is predominant and it is meant to be used in each SaaS context:

- FO
- Power Platform
- .Net Libraries
- Dataverse

in order to:

- aid the development lifecycle
- monitor users' behaviour and app usage pattern 
- produce stats and customization development priorities
- enable proactive monitoring and alerting through system performance and health monitoring
- get E2E timing of business processes

> It is NOT designed to:

- be a SQL performance Monitor, it does not apply in a SaaS offer
- be a view on CPU, RAM, DTUs, Blocking Queries, etc.
- be an Auditing Tool
- etc.

5. Integration for Developers via ILogger:
The integration point for development work is the **ILogger** interface that makes it possible 
to write Custom Telemetry to App Insights. This means that in theory, it is possible to write 
an integration library to allow developers and integrators to funnel a set of standard Telemetry
data to App insights.

This data is going to be exported to the Trace table in App Insights and from Azure Monitor 
it can be queried, extracted, exported, manipulated, visualised mainly via KQL: Azure Data Explorer KQL + API + App Insights API

6. Dataverse is not meant for telemetry data!
You MUST not log custom telemetry data into your own Dataverse/Database custom table 
this will have serious consequences on the production system and development processes such
as copy from UAT to development VMs. 

7. Cost and Aggregation
Any new solution based on App Insights would have to take into account costs that originate from
two main factors:
- Ingestion Volume
- Data Retention Volume*Retention

> Advisable:

- Collect only the data that matters and it is capable of conveying real diagnostics information a take-it-all-in approach as that based on Telegraf would not be reasonable and might not be necessary after all as this is a SaaS world, not an IaaS world!

- keep the data where it can be used only long enough to have practical usage, then archive it or drop it if not likely to be used or useful in the future

- keep only what really matters

---

## Quetions

1. Intergate SaaS App Insihts
Is it possible to integrate different App Insights into one?
Would it make sense?

2. Azure SQL Elastic Pool integration with Telegraf or similar
Can I get to the underlying SQL Database somehow?
Can I use Dynamic Management Views (DMV) Queries?

---

## What do we need?

1. an environment to begin to play with
There is much uncertainty about what is possible and what is not possible.
A Dynamics 365 Environment of some kind is required to begin to experiment with what might work 
and what might not. This environment should be completely independent from any productive system as anything done in this environment would be highly speculative. 
**Starting with a free 30-day D365 trial option might be an option**, although it might require 
setting up a few fake email accounts and a reset every 30 days.

2. define the business goal
What does the company want to achieve?

> Examples:

Would WP want to shift NetEy integrally (as it is) to Dynamics 365 with all its features?

Would WP be happy to extract some of the current NetEye features that are most relevant to WP and/or their customer and that add that would add value also to Dynamics 365 as a SaaS offering?

Would WP consider also different ways of doing telemetry that based on what can be extracted
from SaaS apps via App Insights and possibly any observable underlying infrastructure deliver 
any alerting, monitoring and predictive power over system performance? 

---